the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has said he's hopeful that Hamas
will accept what he has described as an
extraordinarily generous Gaza ceasefire
offer from Israel we've been hearing in
the last few minutes the proposed
ceasefire would be for 40 days Mr
blinkin who's attending talks with his
Regional counterparts in Saudi Arabia
was speaking as a delegation from Hamas
attended parallel ceasefire negotiations
in Cairo after weeks of impass Hamas is
reported to have no major issues with a
revised plan approved by Israel it's
said to include new wording on a
cessation of hostilities Mr blinkin
reaffirmed us opposition to a planned
Israeli offensive on Rafa City meanwhile
saying he seen no plan that protects
civilians there 20 people died in the
latest Israeli air strikes
overnight in this moment the only thing
standing between the people of Gaza and
a ceasefire is
Hamas they have to decide decide and
they have to decide quickly uh so we're
we're looking to that um and I'm hopeful
that they will make the right decision
and we can have a fundamental change in
the in the
dynamic the UK's foreign secretary
meanwhile has given more detail on the
ceasefire deal on the table it does seem
to me there is now you know let's be
frank a pretty generous offer of uh you
know sustained 40 day ceasefire the
release of potentially thousands of
Palestinian prisoners in in return for
the release of these hostages who've now
been in captivity for over 200 days um
so I hope Hamas do take this deal and
frankly all the pressure in the world
and all the eyes of the world should be
on them today saying take that deal it
will bring about this stop in the
fighting that we all want to see so
badly and let's go live now to Jerusalem
and our security correspondent Frank
Gardner Frank hello to you it certainly
is a critical moment uh with a real
sense of momentum it
seems there really is I mean although
it's right at the end of pek here of
Passover there is a feeling that there
could be a real breakthrough here
because both sides Hamas and Israel have
they've made concessions there's no
question about it so Hamas had
originally insisted on an end to the war
and Israel is not agreeing to that but
it is agreeing
to withdraw its um some of its forces
and to allow the passage of the return
of um Palestinians who were currently
are basically kettled right into the
south in Rafa to their homes in the
north of Gaza and that's been a really
key demand um they also dropped their
insistence that it has to be at least 40
hostages the figure that's being talked
around is a bit lower than that around
33 so there is some give here because
there is enormous pressure on both sides
from the CES from the Egyptians from the
Americans from the French to get this
deal through and remember that behind
the scenes here the cabin at the war
cabinet in this country Israel is
divided you've got those who don't want
to see any deal at all to us they want
to see the Egypt they want to see the
Israeli military go in hard smash their
way into Rafa
and eliminate the last remaining few
battalions of Hamas the people that
carried out the atrocities of October
the 7th but the US has made it very
clear they are opposed to any operation
in in Rafa as it stands at the moment
because they don't think that Israel is
capable of protecting all those
civilians that are that are currently
Sheltering them so we've been hearing
about this phrase uh sustainable calm uh
Frank and I wonder does potentially a
40-day ceasefire represent that or
something
more well look what everybody's hoping
for is to be able to bring an end to
this thing alog together what nobody
outside this country wants is to see
this truth end and for the whole thing
to begin all over again um now there are
people um certainly in the Israeli
military and intelligence and security
establishment who you say look we've got
unfinished business in Gaza Yahya sinoa
the architect of the October the 7th
attacks and others um are still at large
probably in the tunnels underneath Rafa
if we don't go into Rafa then it's
unfinished business and it'll just pop
up like a hydra's head and we'll face
the same threats all over again but the
sheer humanitarian the depth and pro the
extent of the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza being pushed to the brink of famine
has really galvanized the International
Community to try and end the hostilities
or at least bring it bring a temporary
pause to them uh and some respite and
there are there is great progress on the
humanitarian front much more Aid is
getting into Gaza this great big pontoon
is being built in central Gaza that's
going to reach out in like a kind of
finger out into the Eastern
Mediterranean Sea for offloading tons of
aid more Crossing points are opening
more trucks are getting in so but that's
not of course that's just a Band-Aid
it's that's just a sticking plaster for
the the greater problems which are PAL
the Palestinians still don't have a
state and there is no sign from this
Israeli government that it wants to ever
depart or to give them a a a kind of
roote map to that's end State okay Frank
thank you very much Frank Gardner there
are sec security correspondent in
Jerusalem and let's get some more
analysis on this story now this
developing story because joining us is
Mark kimt former US Deputy assistant
secretary of defense for the Middle East
and a former Brigadier General thank you
very much for your time today and what's
your reading of this intensive
diplomatic activity first of
all well I think there is some progress
being made uh otherwise secretary
blinkin would not be uh appearing at
these conferences he's putting his
person reputation on the line that
somehow he has brokered a deal between
Israel and uh Egypt and Qatar so I think
we're just going to have to see as your
previous correspondent said there seems
to be some enthusiasm but if it's only
40 or less hostages I think we've still
got a long way to go before a true and
Lasting ceasefire will be in place yeah
and can whatever is being talked about
stop uh an offensive on Rafa we heard
secretary blinken say that you know he's
seen no evidence yet of solid plans to
protect civilians there in
Rafa well again I don't think it will
stop the War I think it will delay the
attack the assault into Rafa as you
remember some time ago prime minister
Netanyahu said before he conducted an
operation into Rafa there would be
sufficient uh housing food water
medicine for the refugees would come out
of Rafa but as secretary blinkin said
there's no evidence that that has been
completed yet so a long way from the
sort of irreversible Pathway to a
two-state solution that the Jordanian
prime minister has been talking
about I think there's an irreversi don't
think we even have a path to the end of
this war much less a two-state
solution okay so um what's next then uh
some sort of temporary cessation not the
sustainable calm that's been mentioned
no I think that's I think you're exactly
right I think this will be a pause this
will not be a secession uh it's clear
the Prime Minister
netanyahu's um objectives to not change
the destruction of Hamas the destruction
of the infrastructure and the return of
the hostages uh this may be a milestone
uh but there are a lot of Milestones
that need to be accomplished the return
of the hostages the defeat of Hamas and
unless prime minister Netanyahu steps
down those will remain his War aims and
just fin and briefly you think the idea
of senior Hamas figures and those
responsible for October the 7th leaving
Gaza do you think that's
likely uh horizontally certainly not
vertically uh thank you very much for
your uh thoughts today Mark kimet former
US Deputy assistant secretary of defense
for the Middle
East thank you